# Tetris-Probability-Calculator

## Description
In this project, I worked with 2 other students to answer questions related to the problem and build the code. The problem was to calculate the probability of "winning" a modified Tetris game in which single blocks are dropped randomly into any column of the game board and the game is "won" when a specific number of rows are filled (called "lines") and "lost" when any column is filled with blocks up to the maximum height. The dimensions of the game board and number of lines to win were provided in a file given in a specific format. A more detailed description of the problem is provided in the "Problem Description.pdf" file.

We utilized dynamic programming to solve this problem by first developing psuedocode for both memoized and iterative versions and then creating the program in C based on the memoized psuedocode. Essentially what is done in our code is that we save the probability of winning from a specific board state into an array-based map, then we use recurrence to calculate the probability of winning from each state down to the base cases, which were a win state (having a probability of 1) and a loss state (having a probability of 0). We also only account for one permutation of the available board states because each permutation has the same chance of winning, so this reduces time complexity because less information needs to be calculated and stored.

## Input and Output Files
A sample input file is included in this repository and its expected output file is also provided. These are "input.txt" and "expectedoutput.txt". You can also make your own input files (they must be named "input.txt") to test the program with. The input file must be in the correct format when you do this, as the code doesn't check if the format is correct or not.
### Input File Format
The first line of the input file is the number of problems in the file. The remaining lines represent each of the problems in the file, where the first number is the width of the board, the second number is the height of the board, and the third number is the number lines that need to be filled to win.
### Output File Format
The output file generated by the code has a single decimal number on each line, indicating the probability of winning the respective problem given in the input file. So, line 1 of the output file corresponds to the problem in line 2 of the input file and so on.

## Instructions
These intructions are developed for Linux, but you should easily be able to do the equivalent on Windows and Mac.
1. Download the tetris.c, makefile, and input.txt file to the same folder on your machine
   - Alternatively, you can make your own input.txt file
2. Run the command _make_
3. Run _./tetris_
4. You can then check the output file to see the probability of winning each of the provided problems!

## Contributors
- [Sri Indukuri](https://github.com/varma3108)
- Venkata Rupesh Varma Konduru
